This is an extension/revision to the approved research project "Understanding the impacts of minimum wages in South Africa: Evidence using national administrative tax data". By using CIT-IRP5, the original research project tests if the higher labour market concentration (measured by Harfindahl-Hirschman index, HHI, in employment) eases the negative disemployment impacts of minimum wages (MW), by running a regression with time-variant coefficients in the form of
  employment = a0 + a1*MW + a2*HHI + a3*(HHI*MW) + e
We are making a steady progress in computing HHI at the Local Municipality level and higher, assuming that the Local Municipality corresponds to the unit of local labour market. We obtained one HHI per Local Municipality which translates to an approximate sample size of 200. 

As the research progresses, it became clear that we need to measure HHI at a more granular level to increase the sample size, therefore, to increase the statistical power of hypothesis tests. A more granular location information has another benefit of allowing researchers to define local labour markets more flexibly. If the ground truth is local labour markets are integrated up to the Main Place level, then we can redefine to measure HHI for every Main Place rathter than for every Local Municipality. In this extension/revision proposal, we ask to gain access to the establishment's location information at the most granular level to compute HHI at the most granular level. 

As it is clear, our analysis is not interested in knowing the identity of firms. We are just interested in how many establishments and employees exist in the same locality, and the spatial placement of each locality. Therefore, no firm identity nor location names lower than Local Municipality will appear in the research paper(s) that we produce.

We also propose to introduce a methodological innovation that is increasingly used in the field of empirical IO: The production approach to wage markdown. In a nutshell, we estimate a production function (factor elasticities) and use input cost data to back out wage markdown, a ratio of (maginal value product of labour)/(wage). This is a definition of firm's labour market power which is derived from producer theory. 




In South Africa, there is a concern that minimum wages may increase the already high unemployment rates. Yet there is little consensus about how the minimum wages affect the economy. In this research, we ask: 1. Do employment impacts of minimum wages change by labor market concentration as a standard theory predicts? 2. Does the survival probability of marginal firms decrease in a highly concentrated labor market? Answering 1. helps predict the sector where unemployment can rise with minimum wages. Answering 2. helps understand long term and probably unintended consequences of minimum wages on market concentration and economy wide reallocation. We implement the research using matched employer-employee tax data (CIT-IRP5) of South African Revenue Services (SARS) at National Treasury, Secure Data Lab (NT-SDL). We utilize the firm level variations in the number of affected workers by sectoral minimum wages to estimate impacts of 1. employment and 2. firm survival. We compare the impacts by concentration in the local labor markets.